# <a href='https://leetcode.com/problems/can-make-palindrome-from-substring/'>1177. Can Make Palindrome from Substring</a>

## Problem
Given a string s, we make queries on substrings of s.

For each query queries[i] = [left, right, k], we may <strong>rearrange</strong> the substring s[left], ..., s[right], and then choose 
<strong>up to</strong> k of them to replace with any lowercase English letter. 

If the substring is possible to be a palindrome string after the operations above, the result of the query is true. Otherwise, the 
result is false.

Return an array answer[], where answer[i] is the result of the i-th query queries[i].

Note that: Each letter is counted individually for replacement so if for example s[left..right] = "aaa", and k = 2, we can only 
replace two of the letters.  (Also, note that the initial string s is never modified by any query.)

<strong>Example :</strong>
```
Input: s = "abcda", queries = [[3,3,0],[1,2,0],[0,3,1],[0,3,2],[0,4,1]]
Output: [true,false,false,true,true]
Explanation:
queries[0] : substring = "d", is palidrome.
queries[1] : substring = "bc", is not palidrome.
queries[2] : substring = "abcd", is not palidrome after replacing only 1 character.
queries[3] : substring = "abcd", could be changed to "abba" which is palidrome. Also this can be changed to "baab" first rearrange it "bacd" then replace "cd" with "ab".
queries[4] : substring = "abcda", could be changed to "abcba" which is palidrome.
``` 

<strong>Constraints:</strong>
- 1 <= s.length, queries.length <= 10^5
- 0 <= queries[i][0] <= queries[i][1] < s.length
- 0 <= queries[i][2] <= s.length
- s only contains lowercase English letters.

## Solution
- Approach #1: Prefix Sum. ```Time O(M + N), where M is length of string and N is size of queries```
```
    public List<Boolean> canMakePaliQueries(String s, int[][] queries) {
        List<Boolean> res = new ArrayList<>();
        int[][] prefix = new int[s.length() + 1][26];
        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); ++ i) {
            prefix[i + 1] = prefix[i].clone();
            prefix[i + 1][s.charAt(i) - 'a'] ++;
        }
        for (int[] q: queries) {
            int sum = 0;
            for (int i = 0; i < 26; ++ i) {
                sum += (prefix[q[1] + 1][i] - prefix[q[0]][i]) % 2;
            }
            res.add(sum / 2 <= q[2]);
        }
        return res;
    }
```
    
## Explanation
According to the description and examples, we can deduce that the rearrange implies the input string s can be changed to any sequence to get close to a palindrome. Here close means least times of replacement of chars needed to become a palindrome after rearranging of s.

Obviously, any two same chars can be rearranged to be symmetric part of a palindrome, only the odd count of the chars we need to care. Therefore, when looping through the String s, we need to know if the count of each char in any prefix of the stirng s is odd or not by computing the corrsponding prefix sum, then the same information can be obtained for substring between any two given indices i and j by prefixSum[j] - prefixSum[i].
Sum those chars with odd number of occurrences, and we only need to replace half of them to make all in symmetric pairs.

e.g.,

If we want to make palindrome from s = "abbcccddddeeeee":
In "abbcccddddeeeee", a, b, c, d, and e occur 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 times, respectively. Among them, a, c and e occur 1, 3, and 5 times.

We can easily rearrange 2 b's, 2c's, 4 d's and 4 e's to a palindrome: bcddeeeeddcb. Now only odd number occurrence chars a, c, and e remaining, and we can place 1 of them, say, e, to the center of the palindrome, and replace either a to c, or c to a to complete the conversion of s to a palindrome: c -> a: abcddeeeeeddcba or a -> c: bccddeeeeddccb.

In short, at least need 3 / 2 = 1 replacement: 3 odd number occurrence of chars a, c, and e divide by 2 equals to 1

- Reference https://leetcode.com/problems/can-make-palindrome-from-substring/discuss/371849/JavaPython-3-3-codes-each%3A-prefix-sum-boolean-and-xor-of-characters'-frequencies-then-compare
